---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #7"
description: "warships, a virtual epidemic, programming, etc."
tags: [history, tech]
---

{% include image.html path="documentation/raisting.jpg" path-detail="documentation/raisting.jpeg" alt="Raisting earth station
 in Bavaria."%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Raisting earth station
 in Bavaria.</em></p>
  
---

### **Shisa Kanko**

[_Shisa kanko_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pointing_and_calling) is the Japanese term for the method of "pointing and calling" that is used most widely in the Japanese and Chinese railways. As the English translation suggests, it is the act of making large gestures and speaking out the status of the task being undertaken, based on the principle that associating a task with physical movements and vocalizations helps maintain focus and attention. The method has shown to reduce workplace errors by upto 85%. 

---

### **When Pepsi had the 6th largest military in the world**

In the 1970s, Pepsi had been bartering its cola-concentrate with the USSR for Stolichnaya vodka due to Russia's inability to convert Rubles to US Dollars and their limited access to foreign currencies. This had made Pepsi the exclusive importer of the famous Stolichnaya vodka in the Western hemisphere. But by the time the agreement expired in the late 80s, Pepsi had built 21 cola factories in the USSR and was planning on building 26 more, and the new trade agreement was to be for an estimated three billion dollars. The situation around the access of foreign currency had still not changed much, and so, in 1989, the USSR traded in 17 submarines, a cruiser, a frigate, and a destroyer with Pepsi in exchange for Pepsi. This armada made Pepsi, albeit for a few days, the 6th largest military power in the world by number of diesel submarines. Of course, Pepsi did not hold on to these warships which were soon sold of to a Swedish company as scrap.  
  
The then president of Pepsi, Donald Kendall, [told the National Security Adviser of USA](https://www.nytimes.com/1989/05/10/opinion/foreign-affairs-soviets-buy-american.html): "We're disarming the USSR faster than you".


---


### **MRI Scans of Fruits and Vegetables**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/24XiBBgDHbQ?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
  

---

### **Corrupted Blood incident**

In the MMORPG World of Warcraft, [Corrupted Blood incident](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corrupted_Blood_incident) was a week-long virtual epidemic in September 2015. It was the result of the introduction of an end boss in a new raid, who casted a highly contagious hit-point draining debuff spell called "Corrupted Blood "on the players. While the spell was supposed to last only a few seconds, it spread throughout the virtual world due to a programming oversight that let non-playable characters carry the spell and "infect" others not in the area while not dying themselves, analogous to being asymptomatic disease carriers. As the epidemic spread, major towns and cities were abandoned and players rushed to more deserted areas. While voluntary quarantines were suggested and implemented, they did not go far, and finally Blizzard had to reset its servers and issue patches.

Epidemiologists studied the incident and the reactions of the in-game population to model how human populations would react to a real-world epidemic.

---
  
### **[Wikipedia page for "Han Dynasty" written in Scots](https://sco.wikipedia.org/wiki/Han_dynasty)**

<center>Reads like English, sounds <i>way</i> better.</center>

---

### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_3loq22TxSc?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---


  
