---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #2"
description: "y2k, art, censorship, etc."
tags: [history, art]
---

{% include image.html path="documentation/wuhan-spray.jpg" path-detail="documentation/wuhan-spray.jpg" alt="WA medical staff member riding on a personal transporter sprays disinfectant in a residential area in Wuhan, China, on March 11, 2020." caption="A medical staff member riding on a personal transporter sprays disinfectant in a residential area in Wuhan, China, on March 11, 2020."%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>A medical staff member riding on a personal transporter sprays disinfectant in a residential area in Wuhan, China, on March 11, 2020.</em></p>
  
---

### **James Whittaker and the Y2K**


While testing paradigms are well developed and adopted in modern software engineering, it wasn't the case during the Y2K crisis. Sometime during the panic, a large corporation (presumable Sun Microsystems) announced that they would pay ~$1000 per Y2K bug that someone finds in their codebase. This was at a time when automated testing was rare and there were very few who actually knew how to do that.  
  
[James Whittaker](https://www.linkedin.com/in/docjamesw/) (then a professor at the Florida Institute of Technology) worked with a few of his students to create a program that would parse Sun Microsystem's codebase and look for Y2K related bugs. When they executed the program, it ran for a week and at the end of the week, it printed it's findings: it had found tens of thousands of bugs. Long story short, both sides brought in their lawyers for the settlement, and one of the students on James' team even bought a car with their share.

---

### **India and the Y2K**

Sometime during the Y2K crisis, American corporations discovered that Indian engineers were well suited to solving the problem, not only because they were comparatively cheaper to hire, but also because they had already been exposed to the legacy systems during their studies. This in part helped initiate the offshoring wave in the early 2000s.  

An except from a [2009 NPR interview](https://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=120738550) with an Indian official notes the US-India relationship:  
>But I think the real turning point in many ways in the U.S. relations was Y2K, the 2000 - year 2000, Indian software engineers and computer engineers suddenly found themselves in the U.S. helping the U.S. in adjusting itself to the Y2K problem. And that opened a new chapter in our relations with a huge increase in services, trade and software and computer industry.

---

### **Generative Art**

Generative art can broadly be defined as art created using a non-human autonomous system, often a computer program that intentionally introduces randomness to the art as part of its creation process. I particularly _love_ [Kjetil Midtgarden Golid's artworks](https://generated.space/).
  
{% include image.html path="documentation/mount-perlin.jpg" path-detail="documentation/mount-perlin.jpg" alt="Kjetil Midtgarden Golid, Topographic Map" caption="Topographic Map, Kjetil Midtgarden Golid"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Generated Topographic Map, Kjetil Midtgarden Golid</em></p>

---

  
### **Gresham's Law**

In economics, [Gresham's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gresham%27s_law) is a monetary principle stating that "bad money drives out good". For example, if there are two forms of commodity money in circulation, which are accepted by law as having similar face value, the more valuable commodity will gradually disappear from circulation.

---

### **The Uncensored Library**
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vFKvjEV6muc?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

### **Oldest Living Multicellular Animals**

In July 2018, Russian scientists collaborating with Princeton University reported that they had analyzed about 300 prehistoric worms recovered from permafrost above the Arctic Circle in Sakha Republic, and that after being thawed, two of the nematodes revived and began moving and eating. One was believed to be about 32,000 years old, while the other, recovered in 2015, was dated at approximately 41,700 years old. These nematodes were believed to be the oldest living multicellular animals on Earth.

---

### **A cool video I revisited this week:**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SNgyEmYyQF4?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---


  
