---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #13"
description: "rabbits, islands, license plates, etc."
tags: [biology, geography]
---

{% include image.html path="documentation/mammoth_tusk.jpeg" path-detail="documentation/mammoth_tusk.jpeg" alt="Woolly mammoth tusk found in Siberia"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Woolly mammoth tusk found in Siberia</em></p>
  
---

### **Decline of Crime in New York City in late 20th Century**

While there are several theory's about what caused crime to drop significantly in the late 20th century, here are three of my favourites:
1. Legalization of abortion in the 1970s, thereby ensuring that many would-be neglected children were never born in the first place.
2. Crime in New York City was a "pandemic" and that a slight reduction in crime tipped the balance.
3. (my favorite) Removal of lead from gasoline in the 1970s. Exposure to lead causes reduction in intelligence and increased aggression, and a strong correlation was found between decreasing violent crime rates and removal of lead from gasoline.

---

### **North Korean calendar**

The DPRK calendar, or the _Juche_ calender, is the calender system used in North Korea. It borrows from the Gregorian calender and the traditional Korean era name system. The calender starts at the birth year of Kim Il-sung, and the years are numbered Juche 1, Juche 2, and so on. Interestingly, there is no "before-Juche" system, and all years before 1912 (the birth year of Kim Il-sung) are represented using the Gregorian calender numbering.

---

### **CMYK in Action**

<div style='position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(100.00% + 44px)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/CarefulLoathsomeBlackbuck?autoplay=0' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>  

---

### **A Void**
[A Void](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Void) is a 300-page French novel by Georges Perec which is written without using the letter "e". Interestingly, the wikipedia entry for the novel contains a plot summary which too is written without "e" even a single time. 

---
### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FFJ_THGj72U?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

  
