---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #15"
description: "micronations, wrestling, rap, etc."
tags: [geography, biology, music]
---

{% include image.html path="data_stats_2019.jpg" path-detail="data_stats_2019.jpg" alt="Summary of data generated per day in 2019"%}
  
---

### **The Principality of Sealand**

[The Principality of Sealand](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principality_of_Sealand) is a micronation that claims Roughs Tower, an offshore platform built as an anti-aircraft gun platform by the British during World War II in the North Sea approximately 12 kilometres off the coast of Suffolk, as its territory.

As one might imagine, there is quite a history associated with the Principality of Sealand, especially from 1978 when "Alexander Achenbach, who describes himself as the Prime Minister of Sealand, hired several German and Dutch mercenaries to lead an attack on Sealand while [Michael] Bates and his wife were in England. Achenbach had disagreed with Bates over plans to turn Sealand into a luxury hotel and casino with fellow German and Dutch businessmen. They stormed the platform with speedboats, Jet Skis and helicopters, and took Bates's son Michael hostage. Michael was able to retake Sealand and capture Achenbach and the mercenaries using weapons stashed on the platform. Achenbach, a German lawyer who held a Sealand passport, was charged with treason against Sealand and was held unless he paid DM 75,000 (more than US$35,000 or £23,000). Germany then sent a diplomat from its London embassy to Sealand to negotiate for Achenbach's release. Roy Bates relented after several weeks of negotiations and subsequently claimed that the diplomat's visit constituted de facto recognition of Sealand by Germany."

---

{% include image.html path="penguin_romance.jpg" path-detail="penguin_romance.jpg" alt="Kyoto Aquarium has a flowchart illustrating the complicated romantic relationships and breakups between their penguins"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>The Kyoto Aquarium has a flowchart illustrating the complicated romantic relationships and breakups between their penguins.</em></p>
  

---

### Octopus Wrestling  
  
Octopus wrestling is a peculiar sport: a diver grapples with a large octopus in shallow water and drags it to the surface. It was most popular on the West Coast of the US in the 1960s, and televised World Octopus Wrestling Championships were held annually. And while the "sport" was called "wrestling", it wasn't really wrestling, as most octopuses are rather skittish and not aggressive at all unless they are provoked, with most cases of provocation ending with the octopus fleeing.

---
### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3la8bsi4P-c?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

  
