---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #17"
description: "stock markets, evolution, free will, etc."
tags: [economics, movies, biology]
---

{% include image.html path="fossil.jpg" path-detail="fossil.jpg" alt="An intact Crinoid specimen fossil dating back to about 345 million years"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>An intact Crinoid specimen fossil dating back to about 345 million years</em></p>
  
---

### **The Oldest Recorded Stock Market Crash in India**

>As per the Business Standard, India experienced its first stock market crash in 1865. Although the Bombay stock exchange had not yet been formed, Gujrati and Parsi traders often traded shares mutually at the junction of Rampart row and Meadows street. In the preceding years, speculation about the results of the American civil war had led to irrational increases of stocks of new Indian companies. Shares of the Back bay reclamation (face value Rs. 5,000) touched Rs. 50,000 and those of Bank of Bombay (face value Rs.500) touched Rs. 2,850. Money made from cotton was pumped into the stock market driving prices of stocks higher. Banks loaned money to speculators further fuelling the bull run and wealthy merchants like Premchand Roychand dispensed advice that led to ordinary people placing their bets on shares.

>On 16 November 1864, the governor warned civil servants not to participate in the current frenzy. New companies were floated with new share issues publicized in the newspapers. Forward contracts further promoted speculative purchases. However, the **market crashed in May 1865 when the civil war ended, causing cotton prices to fall**. Shares of the Backbay reclamation fell by 96% to under Rs. 2,000 and a number of merchants including Behramji Hormuzjee Cama went bankrupt. The crash not only led to a dwindling of the financial fortunes of many, it also led to a decrease of the city's population by 21% due to the closing down of many enterprises. On 1 July 1865, when hundreds of "time bargains" had matured (as the future contracts were then known), buyers and sellers alike defaulted leading to the burst of the bubble. A share of Bank of Bombay which had touched Rs 2,850 at the peak of the market slumped to just Rs 87 in the aftermath of the bust.

---

### [Wikipedia's list of people with the most children](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_with_the_most_children)

---

### **A Stunt Scene From Buster Keaton's Three Ages (1923)**

<div style='position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(100.00% + 44px)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/solidslushyacornbarnacle?autoplay=0' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>  
  

---

### **Foster's rule**

[Foster's rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foster%27s_rule) (or _island rule_ or _island effect_) is the eco-geographical rule which states that members of a species either get smaller ([insular dwarfism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Island_dwarfism)) or larger ([insular gigantism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Island_gigantism)) depending on the resources available in their environment. The rule is based on the work of J Bristol Foster who had proposed that smaller creatures get larger over time when there is low predation pressure, and that larger animals become smaller when resources like food are limited.

---
### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DU6ss1Vup3k?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

  
