---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #10"
description: "Sharks, biases, crime, etc."
tags: [biology, psychology, movies]
---

_**Note:**_ When I started this blog, I decided that I will not compromise the quality of a post just to fill up space. This week was pretty boring, so this entry is going to be short. 

---
{% include image.html path="documentation/greenland_shark.jpg" path-detail="documentation/greenland_shark.jpg" alt="Greenland shark"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>A 392 year old Greenland Shark in the Arctic Ocean, wandering the ocean since 1627.</em></p>

---

### **Horn effect**

[Horn effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horn_effect) refers to the form of cognitive bias that causes one's perception of another to be unduly influenced by a single negative trait. For example, a person is more likely to assume a physically unattractive person is morally inferior to an attractive person, despite the lack of relationship between morality and physical appearance. This effect is closely related to (and, in fact, is the opposite of) the [halo effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halo_effect), which is the tendency for positive impression of an entity in one area to positively influence one's opinion or feelings in another area. An example of halo effect is when an individual notices that a person in the photograph is attractive, well groomed, and properly attired, assumes, using a mental heuristic, that the person in the photograph is a good person based upon the rules of that individual's social concept.

---


### **Polarized glasses!**

<div style='position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(50%)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/ZestyDefiniteAllensbigearedbat' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
  

---

### **Crime in Antarctica**

[Wikipedia's entry on "Crime in Antarctica"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crime_in_Antarctica) interestingly notes that "while crime in Antarctica is relatively rare, isolation and boredom affect certain people there negatively and may lead to crime". Here are some other entries verbatim:

* Alcoholism is a known problem on the continent, and has led to fights and indecent exposure
* Other types of crimes ... include illicit drug use, torturing and killing wildlife,[2] racing motorbikes through environmentally sensitive areas, assault with a deadly weapon, attempted murder, and arson.
* Robberies are highly unusual ... very little use for money exists in Antarctica.
* Under the 1959 Antarctic Treaty, ratified by 53 nations, persons accused of a crime in Antarctica are subject to punishment by their own country.


---
### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GiOuUP9z7l4?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---


  
