---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #16"
description: "trains, star wars, internet, etc."
tags: [law, tech]
---

{% include image.html path="rail.jpg" path-detail="rail.jpg" alt="The Wuppertaler Schwebebahn is the oldest electric elevated railway with hanging cars in the world"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>The Wuppertaler Schwebebahn is the oldest electric elevated railway with hanging cars in the world</em></p>
  
---

### **Chewbacca Defense**

[Chewbacca defense](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chewbacca_defense) is a legal defense strategy in a jury trial where the criminal defense lawyer tries to confuse the jury rather than to refute the case of the prosecuter. The name comes from the Southpark episode titled "Chef Aid" which satirizes the O. J. Simpson murder trial. In the episode, Johnnie Cochran (Simpson's attorney) asks the jury "why a Wookiee like Chewbacca would want to live on Endor with the much smaller Ewoks when 'it does not make sense'. He argues that if Chewbacca living on Endor does not make sense—and if even mentioning Chewbacca in the case does not make sense—then the jury must acquit." In the real trial, Cochran had argued tried to convince the jury that a glove found on thr crime scene (supposedly left there by the killer) did not fit Simpson, and that the lack of fit proved Simpson's innocence: "It makes no sense; it doesn't fit; if it doesn't fit, you must acquit." 

---

{% include image.html path="bird.jpg" path-detail="bird.jpg" alt="Same bird, but the wings are different on the mirror"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Same bird, but the wings are different on the mirror</em></p>
  

---

### **Eternal September**

September 1993 was the month when AOL began offering Usenet access to its users. Before then, Usenet was largely restricted to colleges, universities, and other research institutes. Every September, many new incoming students would get access to Usenet for the first time and would take their time in getting used to Usenet's netiquette. After a month or so, the new user's would either learn to comply to Usenet's social norms or would tire of using the service. But when AOL started to offer Usenet openly in September, 1993, the influx of new users never stopped and became too large to incorporate into the existing culture of Usenet. Since then the popularity of the Internet has led to a constant stream of new users. Hence, from the point of view of the early Usenet, the influx of new users in September 1993 never ended, and has been called the [Eternal September](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eternal_September).

---
### **An incredible music video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NUC2EQvdzmY?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

  
