---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #6"
description: "the plague, imagination, wikipedia, etc."
tags: [history, tech, biology]
---

{% include image.html path="documentation/island.jpg" path-detail="documentation/island.jpeg" alt="A single cloud over Lítla Dímun, the smallest of the Faroe Islands in Denmark" caption="A single cloud over Lítla Dímun, the smallest of the Faroe Islands in Denmark"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>A single cloud over Lítla Dímun, the smallest of the Faroe Islands in Denmark</em></p>
  
---

### **Six Feet Under**

As the Great Plague of London ravaged England in 1665, the City of London published [special laws concerning the plague](https://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A53403.0001.001?view=toc). Besides appointing watchmen for every infected household, and requiring compulsory isolation of the sick, the orders also laid down rules concerning the burial of the dead: burials would only take place either before sunrise or after sunset, "no Neighbours nor Friends" would be allowed to be present at the burial, and the graves would need to be at least 6 feet deep. Though modern graves are rarely 6 feet in depth, the idea has stuck through the centuries.

---

### **Saif ad-Din Qutuz**

[Qutuz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qutuz) was an Iranian prince who, as a child, was captured by the Mongols during the fall of the Khwarazmian dynasty in 1231. He was sold in Egypt as a slave. Over the course of 20 years, he climbed the ranks to become vice-Sultan. In 1259, he fought the Mongols as the Sultan, and crushed the Mongol forces in what is now considered a historical turning point.

---

{% include image.html path="documentation/crown-shyness.jpg" path-detail="documentation/crown-shyness.jpeg" alt="Crown shyness, the phenomenon where tree canopies do not touch, forming channel-like gaps between them"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Crown shyness, the phenomenon where tree canopies do not touch each other, forming channel-like gaps between them"</em></p>
  

---

### **Aphantasia**

[Aphantasia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aphantasia) (phantasia meaning “imagination” in Greek) refers to the the condition where a person does not have a "mind's eye", i.e., they cannot voluntarily visualize imagery. Interestingly enough, despite their inability to conjure imagery, when asked questions like "how many windows does your house have?", they can often still answer them correctly, showcasing that they have alternate strategies to get around the lack of a mind’s eye.


---
  
### **[DNS Over Wikipedia](https://github.com/aaronjanse/dns-over-wikipedia)**

>Wikipedia keeps track of official URLs for popular websites. With DNS over Wikipedia installed, domains ending with .idk are redirected by searching Wikipedia and extracting the relevant URL from the infobox.


---

### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/F92UklKsAic?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---


  
