---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #5"
description: "covid-19, nuclear submarines, polyglots, etc."
tags: [history, nuclear submarines, sports]
---

{% include image.html path="documentation/USNS Comfort.jpg" path-detail="documentation/USNS Comfort.jpeg" alt="<del>Swiss invading the US</del> USNS Comfort, a US navy ship used primarily for humanitarian missions, arriving in NYC to help with the worsening COVID-19 situation" caption="<del>Swiss invading the US</del> USNS Comfort, a US navy ship used primarily for humanitarian missions, arriving in NYC to help with the worsening COVID-19 situation"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em><del> Swiss invading the US </del><br> USNS Comfort, a US navy ship used primarily for humanitarian missions, arriving in NYC to help with the worsening COVID-19 situation</em></p>
  
---

### **The Highest Paid Athlete of All Time**

According to [Peter Struck](https://www.sas.upenn.edu/~struck/), the highest paid athelete of all time was a chariot racer from Ancient Rome named Gaius Appuleius Diocles. Michael Jordan's estimated $2.1B net-worth doesn't even come close to Gaius' 35,863,120 sesterces, equivalent to upwards of $15B today. 


---

### **Jim Creek Naval Radio Station**

[Jim Creek Naval Radio Station](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Creek_Naval_Radio_Station) is a US Navy very low frequency radio transmitter whose sole purpose is to send one-way messages to submarines. Built in 1953, the station operates at a frequency of 24.8 kHz at 1.2 megawatts and is one of the most powerful transmitters in the world. In the event of a nuclear war, the station would transmit launch orders to US ballistic missile submarines in the Pacific fleet. The station was a potential target for a Russian attack, as reported by the Russian state media in early 2019.



---

{% include image.html path="documentation/tesla xray.jpg" path-detail="documentation/tesla xray.jpeg" alt="Wilhelm Röntgen's letter to Nikola Tesla, after Tesla X-rayed his own foot, capturing one of the first X-ray images in the US" caption="Wilhelm Röntgen's letter to Nikola Tesla, after Tesla X-rayed his own foot, capturing one of the first X-ray images in the US"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Wilhelm Röntgen's letter to Nikola Tesla, after Tesla X-rayed his own foot, capturing one of the first X-ray images in the US</em></p>

---

### **Letters of Last Resort**

The [Letters of Last Resort](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letters_of_last_resort) are 4 identical handwritten letters written by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to the commanding officers of 4 British ballistic missile submarines. They are stored inside nested safeboxes in the control rooms of each submarine. They contain instructions as to what needs to be done in case an enemy has destroyed the British government with a nuclear strike and has killed/incapacitated both the British Prime Minister, and the second in command. The actions carried out through the instructions of these letters will be considered the last official act of the Government of the United Kingdom. The letters are destroyed unopened when the current Prime Minister of the UK leaves office.


---
  
### **[The Egg, by Andy Weir](http://www.galactanet.com/oneoff/theegg_mod.html)**

<p style="text-align: center;">A short story by the writer of The Martian, before he wrote the Martian.</p>

---

### **An incredible video I found this week: 2 Polyglots Talking in 21 Languages**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/t3H5D-XxPrI?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---


  
