---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #9"
description: "rabbits, islands, license plates, etc."
tags: [biology, geography]
---

{% include image.html path="documentation/morocco.jpg" path-detail="documentation/morocco.jpeg" alt="Traditional Moroccon Tents"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Traditional Moroccon tents, usually made from loosely woven goat hair and wool.</em></p>
  
---

### **Australia's Rabbit Population**

Most of Australia's rabbit population is said to have originated from 24 rabbits that were released on the continent in 1859 by a hunter. Within 10 years of their introduction, the population had grown so rapidly that trapping 2 million rabbits every year did not have any effect on their population. By 1920s, there were an estimated 10 billion rabbits in Australia. Their growing population led to the building of the (unsuccessful) [rabbit-proof fence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabbit-proof_fence) in 1907. At 1833 km, it was the longest unbroken fence in the world at the time.

---

### **The NULL License Plate**

In late 2016, Joseph Tartaro got a vanity license plate "NULL" registered in California, thinking that he would be able to confuse the computer system. Instead, due to the imcompetence of the third party company that the DMV had outsourced its software to, Tartaro gathered over $12k in fines in the first year alone; turns out, every time a cop left the license plate field blank while writing a ticket, it defaulted to NULL and was sent to Tartaro.
<br>
{% include image.html path="documentation/bobby.png" path-detail="documentation/bobby.png" alt="Bobby Tables, XKCD"%}
<p style="margin:0;;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>...reminds me of this classic.</em></p>

---


### **Just Room Enough Island**

{% include image.html path="documentation/just_enough_room.jpg" path-detail="documentation/just_enough_room.jpeg" alt="Just Enough Room Island"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Just Enough Room Island is the world's smallest inhabited island and is one of the islands in the Thousand Islands chain in New York. The island has just enough room for a house, a tree, some shrubs, and a small beach.</em></p>
  

---

### **Garfield's Gender**

In 2014, Jim Davis (the creator of Garfield) said in an interview that "Garfield is very universal. By virtue of being a cat, really, he’s not really male or female or any particular race or nationality, young or old". This quote was the spark that became the fire that was a [60-hour long edit-battle on Wikipedia over Garfield's gender](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk%3AGarfield_(character)#Gender). At one point, there were 19 references added to the page citing various instances where Garfield has been referred to with heteronormative male pronouns in the comics over the years. The war finally ended when the Washington Post interviewed Jim Davis, where he clarified that Garfield was, in fact, a male.

---

### Hewlett-Packard
The founders of Hewlett-Packard flipped a coin to decide which order their names would be put in the company name. Packard won the toss and put Hewlett’s name first.

---
### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Tj3_0AmiJbg?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---


  
