---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #19"
description: "attractiveness, harbingers, space, etc."
tags: [law, psychology, space]
---

### **Physical Attractiveness Bias in the Legal System**

{% include image.html path="attractiveness_1.jpg" path-detail="attractiveness_1.jpg" alt="The Misdemeanour Study"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>The Misdemeanour Study <sup>[1]</sup></em></p>
 

Physical attractiveness has a significant influence on judges' sentencing, as has been shown by 3 different studies with a minimum increase of 119.25% and a maximum increase of 304.88%, tut the attractiveness did not have an effect on the verdict of guilt. The more unattractive the criminal is, the higher is the sentence. 

{% include image.html path="attractiveness_2.jpg" path-detail="attractiveness_2.jpg" alt="The Pennsylvanian Study"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>The Pennsylvanian Study <sup>[2]</sup></em></p>

{% include image.html path="attractiveness_3.jpeg" path-detail="attractiveness_3.jpeg" alt="The Second Pennsylvanian Study"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>The Second Pennsylvanian Study <sup>[3]</sup></em></p>

[1] Natural Observations of the Links Between Attractiveness and Initial Legal Judgments (1991) by A. Chris Downs and Phillip M. Lyons

[2] Defendant's Attractiveness as a Factor in the Outcome of Criminal Trials: An Observational Study (1980) by John E. Stewart

[3] Appearance and Punishment: The Attraction-Leniency Effect in the Courtroom (1985) By John E. Stewart

---

### **Harbinger Customers and Harbinger Zip Codes**

Harbinger Customers and Harbinger Zip codes refer to the [unexplained phenomenon](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0022243719867935) where the said people (harbinger customers, often residing in "harbinger zip codes") tend to buy unpopular brands. There is evidence that if these people (or the people in harbinger zip codes) adopt a new product, it is a signal that the product will fail. There is also evidence that the households in harbinger zip codes make decisions that differ from other households. They even tend to donate to and support congressional election candidates who are less likely to win.

---

### **Difference in weather between two sides of the mountain**

<div style='position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(100.00% + 44px)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/clearsplendiddodobird?autoplay=0' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>  

---

### **September 1859 geomagnetic storm**

The September of 1859 saw the largest geomagnetic storm ever recorder, also known as the [Carrington Event](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/September_1859_geomagnetic_storm), caused by a solar coronal mass ejection that hit Earth's magnetosphere. The storm caused strong auroral displays and wrought havoc upon telegraph systems of the time. Had something of that scale happened today, it would cause widespread electrical blackouts and damage the electrical grids.

---

### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/KVgoy_a_gWI?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

  
