---
layout: post
title: "coolest stuff i saw this week #18"
description: "crappy situations, cool names, time travel, etc."
tags: [history, web, movies]
---

{% include image.html path="jupiter.jpg" path-detail="jupiter.jpg" alt="Jupiter and its moons"%}
<p style="margin:0; text-align: center;margin: 0;top: -25px;position: relative;"><em>Jupiter and its moons, rising over a mountain forest</em></p>
  
---

### **Erfurt latrine disaster**

In 1184, a number of nobles from across the Holy Roman Empire were meeting in a room at the Church of St. Peter, where King Heinrich VI of was mediating a feud. As the nobles gathered in a room at the Church of St. Peter, their combined weight caused the floor to collapse into the latrine beneath the cellar and led to dozens of nobles drowning in liquid excrement. At least 60 people died in the accident.

---

### **Aptronyms**

An aptronym is a personal name that is aptly (and often peculiarly) suited to its owner. Some of my favorites:

* [Sara Blizzard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sara_Blizzard): meteorologist for the BBC
* [Christopher Coke](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sara_Blizzard): drug lord and cocaine trafficker
* [Thomas Crapper](Thomas Crapper, sanitary engineer), sanitary engineer
* [Corona Rintawan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corona_Rintawan):  Indonesian physician who leads Muhammadiyah's command center for the COVID-19

---

### **Difference in weather between two sides of the mountain**

<div style='position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(100.00% + 44px)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/celebratedwarpedankolewatusi?autoplay=0' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>  

---

### **Predictions by John Titor**

John Titor was a supposed time-traveller who posted elaborate narrations of time travel on several bulletin boards in 2000 and 2001. 
> Greetings. I am a time traveller from the year 2036. I am on my way home after getting an IBM 5100 computer system from the year 1975.

>My ‘time’ machine is a stationary mass, temporal displacement unit manufactured by General Electric. The unit is powered by two top-spin dual-positive singularities that produce a standard off-set Tipler sinusoid.

Some of his predictions were:
* An upcoming civil war in the US (supposed to start in 2004)
* World War III in 2015, which would end the civil war
* Washington DC and Jacksonville, FL would be hit, and Omaha, NB would be the new capital
* The "Everett–Wheeler model of quantum physics", better known as the many-worlds interpretation, was correct. 

---
### **An incredible video I found this week**

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/v3MtBE37wHY?modestbranding=1&autohide=1&showinfo=0&controls=1" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

  
